My project began with reading in a data set of the daily count of rental bikes between years 2011 and 2012 in the Capital bikeshare system. Using the data set, I created a training and test split, which is a 70/30 split. Then, I did some exploratory data analysis of the training data set. In this analysis, I used contingency tables and scatterplots to compare each predictor variable with the response variable, which was the count of bike rentals. After this, I fit the two models, a non-ensemble tree regression model and a boosted tree model, using the training set. Finally, I made predictions using these models on the test sets and determined an optimal model in terms of the test RMSE.   

One thing I would do differently is to try some other methods of exploratory analysis. I focused primarily on contingency tables and scatterplots as they related to the response variable. I think it would have been interesting to explore some other plots such as a boxplot or line graph as we are working with time data here. I also would consider selecting my own tuning parameters. I used the default values, as I didn't see anything in project description to make me think I should select my own values; however, I think it would have been interesting to see the resulting models performance in comparison to the performance with the default values.  

The most difficult part of the project, in my opinion, was getting the automation of the reports for all days of the week to sucessfully work. I spent a good chunk of time trying to use the YAML header to generate the report for each day of the week. I wasn't able to figure out a way to get that method to work; however, I eventually realized that I needed to call the apply function from a separate R script file. 

One of my big takeaways from this project is to do some pre-planning work rather than jumping right into the code. I feel like I wouldn't have spent so much time trying to get my parameters working in the YAML header as I described above. Also, I believe I might've been able to come up with a more interesting exploratory analysis if I had done some prep work before beginning the actual coding of the project. 

Below is a link to my github pages repo:

[Pages Link](https://rekelle3.github.io/ST558-Project-2/)
