After completion of this course, my views as to what a data scientist is and what they do on a day to day basis have remained largely the same since my first post. I have learned that one additional key area of data science, which I did not include in my first post, is preparation and understanding. This preparation and understanding step acts as the motivation for getting a data science project from design to production and is where we answer a clear organizational need. Data scientists need to have a clear and identifiable objective of what we wish to do with the data, such as a concrete question to answer, a product to build, etc.

I still stand by my thoughts on R that I detailed in my second blog post. While R is an excellent data science tool, I believe it still has some shortcomings and some details that could be improved upon. One major criticism I have of R is that the syntax of base R and some other packages are not always intuitive. Thankfully, this is mostly remedied by sticking to the tidyverse packages for data science needs. I absolutely anticipate using R going forward in my career. R is one of the most widely used programming languages in the data science world, and I have found it to be a worthwhile language to become more familiar with. Additionally, I enjoy the diversity of the language and how it can be used in almost every industry, ranging from finance, banking to medicine and manufacturing. 

This course has been very enriching, and I truly feel that I learned a great deal that will help me throughout my career. As a result of this class, one thing I plan on doing differently in practice is to place more emphasis on the preparation and understanding step I detailed above. For most of the projects assigned in this course, I often found myself wanting to jump right into the data exploration and modeling step, without much of a roadmap on where to go. This would leave me feeling overwhelmed at times and confused as to the story I was trying to tell with the data. I believe I’ve been able to improve on this little by little with each project that we’ve completed. 
