My project began with creating functions that would contact the NHL Records API and NHL Stats API, and return parsed data for certain endpoints. For the Records API, I had to accomodate both franchise name and id as inputs. And for the Stats API, I accomodated a total of eight modifiers to be passed through as input. For my the ananlysis portion of my project, I decided to focus first on the NHL as a whole, and then on my personal team, the Washington Capitals. First I focused on establishing the structure of both the NHL and Capitals (conference breakdown, position breakdown, etc.) using some contingency tables. The rest of my project was analyzing some key metrics that may indicate good performance in the league. I found that the Montréal Canadiens tend to dominate most of the metrics I looked at in the overall NHL analysis. And the Washington Capitals tend to have a fairly consistent performance when compared to previous seasons.   

One thing I would do differently is create some subfunctions and use global variables. I've realized that some of my code follows the "copy and paste" style where I tweak a few lines to pertain to the specific endpoint. I think it would've been helpful to make a function that goes through the steps of creating the get request and formatting into a JSON file, as I wrote that code out in full for each endpoint. I also would've set some global variables such as the base URL of each API, as I currently specify this is each function. 

The most difficult part of the project for me personally was passing the modifiers into the NHL Stats API. I struggled with getting this endpoint to return any data other than the general teams table. I also found it difficult to have all of the data combined together into one line. I was expecting the data to be separable by game, so I could extract things such as distribution of goals for a specific team. The formatting of the data made it challenging to come up with different ways to visualize and analyze it. 

One of my big takeaways from this project is to try and not "copy and paste" code more than twice or so, and just create a function instead. I also wish I would've spent a little less time on the exploratory analysis. I have a tendency to want to look for things that are interesting or meaningful, and I probably spent more time than I should have on this part of the project. So another one of my big takeaways is that not every graph has to show something meaningful. 

Below  is a link to my github pages repo:

[Pages Link](https://rekelle3.github.io/ST558-Project-1/)
