---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---
Data science is the latest buzzword to come out of the mathematics and statistics realm. There are a wide variety of data scientist definitions, and every article mentioning data science seems to have a slightly different spin on the word. I believe this is because, at its core, data science is multidisciplinary. In my view, a data scientist applies the quintessential fields of mathematics, statistics, and computer science to a specific industry.  

From my own personal experiences on job search websites, such as Indeed, I have found that data scientist job descriptions tend to vary greatly from job posting to posting. With that being said, I believe there are a few key duties and skillsets that tend to appear in each job description. First, a data scientist should be able to extract meaning from and interpret data. This requires some basic knowledge of statistics. Before data scientists can even begin this interpretation, data typically needs to be collected and cleaned. The necessary skills for this task are computer programming and the ability to code in multiple programming languages. Another key duty of the data scientist is data analysis. This is where industry knowledge often comes into play. Finally, and arguably the leading duty, is effectively communicating any findings or analysis results. Data scientists should be able to tailor this communication to both technical and non-technical audiences. 

The fields of data science and statistics have more similarities than differences. As more complex statistical methods are created, the line between data science and statistics is becoming blurred. Similarities between the fields include the use of data analysis, computer programming, modeling techniques, communication, and decision-making skills. A few notable differences exist. One such difference is the language and terminology that is commonly used in each field. Take the term feature for example, which is commonplace in data science, and predictor or independent variable, which are the more conventional terms in statistics. Another difference is the problem typically studied. Problems solved by data scientists tend to be specific to a certain industry or business, while statisticians focus on larger scale problems that can be applied to a wide variety of industries.

My current role is with the financial department of a non-profit organization that provides services to individuals with developmental disabilities. I am responsible for collecting data from multiple sources, analysis, interpretation, and visualization of data.  The findings I communicate to directors and others within the organization are very specific to our field of human services, so I currently view myself as more of a data scientist than statistician. 
